Brutus, a likely pseudonym of Robert Yates
Brutus No. 1 (1787)
1
Let us now proceed to enquire, as I at first proposed, whether it be best the thirteen United States
should be reduced to one great republic, or not? It is here taken for granted, that all agree in this,
that whatever government we adopt, it ought to be a free one; that it should be so framed as to
secure the liberty of the citizens of America, and such an one as to admit of a full, fair, and equal
representation of the people. The question then will be, whether a government thus constituted,
and founded on such principles, is practicable, and can be exercised over the whole United States,
reduced into one state?
If respect is to be paid to the opinion of the greatest and wisest men who have ever thought or
wrote on the science of government, we shall be constrained to conclude, that a free republic
cannot succeed over a country of such immense extent, containing such a number of inhabitants,
and these increasing in such rapid progression as that of the whole United States. Among the many
illustrious authorities which might be produced to this point, I shall content myself with quoting
only two. The one is the baron de Montesquieu, Spirit of Laws, Chap. xvi. Vol. I [Book VIII]. "It is
natural to a republic to have only a small territory, otherwise it cannot long subsist. In a large
republic there are men of large fortunes, and consequently of less moderation; there are trusts too
great to be placed in any single subject; he has interest of his own; he soon begins to think that he
may be happy, great and glorious, by oppressing his fellow citizens; and that he may raise himself to
grandeur on the ruins of his country. In a large republic, the public good is sacrificed to a thousand
views; it is subordinate to exceptions, and depends on accidents. In a small one, the interest of the
public is easier perceived, better understood, and more within the reach of every citizen; abuses are
of less extent, and of course are less protected." Of the same opinion is the marquis Beccarari.
History furnishes no example of a free republic, anything like the extent of the United States. The
Grecian republics were of small extent; so also was that of the Romans. Both of these, it is true, in
process of time, extended their conquests over large territories of country; and the consequence
was, that their governments were changed from that of free governments to those of the most
tyrannical that ever existed in the world.
Not only the opinions of the greatest men, and the experience of mankind, are against the idea of an
extensive republic, but a variety of reasons may be drawn from the reason and nature of things,
against it. In every government, the will of the sovereign is the law. In despotic governments the
supreme authority being lodged in one, his will is law, and can be as easily expressed to a large
extensive territory as to a small one. In a pure democracy the people are the sovereign, and their
will is declared by themselves; for this purpose they must all come together to deliberate, and
decide. This kind of government cannot be exercised, therefore, over a country of any considerable
extent; it must be confined to a single city, or at least limited to such bounds as that the people can
conveniently assemble, be able to debate, understand the subject submitted to them, and declare
their opinion concerning it.
In a free republic, although all laws are derived from the consent of the people, yet the people do
not declare their consent by themselves in person, but by representatives, chosen by them, who are
2
supposed to know the minds of their constituents, and to be possessed of integrity to declare this
mind.
In every free government, the people must give their assent to the laws by which they are governed.
This is the true criterion between a free government and an arbitrary one. The former are ruled by
the will of the whole, expressed in any manner they may agree upon; the latter by the will of one, or
a few. If the people are to give their assent to the laws, by persons chosen and appointed by them,
the manner of the choice and the number chosen, must be such, as to possess, be disposed, and
consequently qualified to declare the sentiments of the people; for if they do not know, or are not
disposed to speak the sentiments of the people, the people do not govern, but the sovereignty is in a
few. Now, in a large extended country, it is impossible to have a representation, possessing the
sentiments, and of integrity, to declare the minds of the people, without having it so numerous and
unwieldy, as to be subject in great measure to the inconveniency of a democratic government.
The territory of the United States is of vast extent; it now contains near three millions of souls, and
is capable of containing much more than ten times that number. Is it practicable for a country, so
large and so numerous as they will soon become, to elect a representation, that will speak their
sentiments, without their becoming so numerous as to be incapable of transacting public business?
It certainly is not.
In a republic, the manners, sentiments, and interests of the people should be similar. If this be not
the case, there will be a constant clashing of opinions; and the representatives of one part will be
continually striving, against those of the other. This will retard the operations of government, and
prevent such conclusions as will promote the public good. If we apply this remark to the condition
of the United States, we shall be convinced that it forbids that we should be one government. The
United States includes a variety of climates. The productions of the different parts of the union are
very variant, and their interests, of consequence, diverse. Their manners and habits differ as much
as their climates and productions; and their sentiments are by no means coincident. The laws and
customs of the several states are, in many respects, very diverse, and in some opposite; each would
be in favor of its own interests and customs, and, of consequence, a legislature, formed of
representatives from the respective parts, would not only be too numerous to act with any care or
decision, but would be composed of such heterogeneous and discordant principles, as would
constantly be contending with each other.
The laws cannot be executed in a republic, of an extent equal to that of the United States, with
promptitude.
The magistrates in every government must be supported in the execution of the laws, either by an
armed force, maintained at the public expense for that purpose; or by the people turning out to aid
the magistrate upon his command, in case of resistance.
In despotic governments, as well as in all the monarchies of Europe, standing armies are kept up to
execute the commands of the prince or the magistrate, and are employed for this purpose when
occasion requires: But they have always proved the destruction of liberty, and [are] abhorrent to
3
the spirit of a free republic. In England, where they depend upon the parliament for their annual
support, they have always been complained of as oppressive and unconstitutional, and are seldom
employed in executing of the laws; never except on extraordinary occasions, and then under the
direction of a civil magistrate.
A free republic will never keep a standing army to execute its laws. It must depend upon the
support of its citizens. But when a government is to receive its support from the aid of the citizens,
it must be so constructed as to have the confidence, respect, and affection of the people. Men who,
upon the call of the magistrate, offer themselves to execute the laws, are influenced to do it either
by affection to the government, or from fear; where a standing army is at hand to punish offenders,
every man is actuated by the latter principle, and therefore, when the magistrate calls, will obey:
but, where this is not the case, the government must rest for its support upon the confidence and
respect which the people have for their government and laws. The body of the people being
attached, the government will always be sufficient to support and execute its laws, and to operate
upon the fears of any faction which may be opposed to it, not only to prevent an opposition to the
execution of the laws themselves, but also to compel the most of them to aid the magistrate; but the
people will not be likely to have such confidence in their rulers, in a republic so extensive as the
United States, as necessary for these purposes. The confidence which the people have in their
rulers, in a free republic, arises from their knowing them, from their being responsible to them for
their conduct, and from the power they have of displacing them when they misbehave: but in a
republic of the extent of this continent, the people in general would be acquainted with very few of
their rulers; the people at large would know little of their proceedings, and it would be extremely
difficult to change them. The people in Georgia and New-Hampshire would not know one another's
mind, and therefore could not act in concert to enable them to effect a general change of
representatives. The different parts of so extensive a country could not possibly be made
acquainted with the conduct of their representatives, nor be informed of the reasons upon which
measures were founded. The consequence will be, they will have no confidence in their legislature,
suspect them of ambitious views, be jealous of every measure they adopt, and will not support the
laws they pass. Hence the government will be nerveless and inefficient, and no way will be left to
render it otherwise, but by establishing an armed force to execute the laws at the point of the
bayonet--a government of all others the most to be dreaded.
In a republic of such vast extent as the United-States, the legislature cannot attend to the various
concerns and wants of its different parts. It cannot be sufficiently numerous to be acquainted with
the local condition and wants of the different districts, and if it could, it is impossible it should have
sufficient time to attend to and provide for all the variety of cases of this nature, that would be
continually arising.
In so extensive a republic, the great officers of government would soon become above the control of
the people, and abuse their power to the purpose of aggrandizing themselves, and oppressing them.
The trust committed to the executive offices, in a country of the extent of the United-States, must be
various and of magnitude. The command of all the troops and navy of the republic, the appointment
of officers, the power of pardoning offences, the collecting of all the public revenues, and the power
of expending them, with a number of other powers, must be lodged and exercised in every state, in
4
the hands of a few. When these are attended with great honor and emolument, as they always will
be in large states, so as greatly to interest men to pursue them, and to be proper objects for
ambitious and designing men, such men will be ever restless in their pursuit after them. They will
use the power, when they have acquired it, to the purposes of gratifying their own interest and
ambition, and it is scarcely possible, in a very large republic, to call them to account for their
misconduct, or to prevent their abuse of power.
These are some of the reasons by which it appears that a free republic cannot long subsist over a
country of the great extent of these states. If then this new constitution is calculated to consolidate
the thirteen states into one, as it evidently is, it ought not to be adopted.
Source: The Founders Constitution, an online database maintained by the University of Chicago
http://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/documents/v1ch4s14.html